Instructions: https://www.ceias.nau.edu/cs/CS_Capstone/Assignments/website-assmt.html


# Project Description  
Gerrymandering poses a threat to our democracy; it has the potential to make voting obsolete.  
Representatives manipulate district lines to control the voting outcome using two popular strategies; packing and cracking.  
Packing involves grouping like-minded individuals into one district as a way to keep them "contained".   
Cracking is used to split like-minded individuals up in order to dilute their votes, thus making them ineffective. 

**Image Here**  
(The image to be included is the packing_cracking_example.png)

Our proposed solution is to create an unbiased, user friendly algorithm by utilizing census data.  
The goal is to make voting districts that are compact, preventing the dilution or concentration of specific demographics.   
Different social and economic communities will be considered, ensuring that their voices are represented.   
We plan to make our algorithm accessible and easy to use by implementing a GUI that will provide a visual   
representation of our proposed voting districts.


The initial concept for this project was provided by our sponsor, in the form of a Capstone project proposal.  

**Note:**
Capstone project proposal should be a link to the following: https://www.ceias.nau.edu/cs/CS_Capstone/Projects/S24/BeroB_VotingDistricts_v01.pdf


## Requirements



## Solution



# Technology
The following technologies are ones we plan to use to make this project a success:
## Front End
### HTML/CSS/Javascript
The main element of our project will be an interactive website that allows users to view different district maps of various states. In order to do this, we will be implementing HTML/CSS/Javascript to create a cohesive experience that is user-friendly and intuitive.

## Back End
### Python
Python will be the main computational power our algorithm will run through. Due to the nature of the language, this will allow us to create the most human-readable code that can be accessed by most anyone who wants to inspect it.
### SQL
An SQL database will store the information generated by our Python algorithm. Since Census data only comes around once every 10 years, the database will hold the results of our redistricting algorithm until new Census data comes out.
### PHP
As a bridge between our SQL database and the website to keep information dynamic. PHP will allow us to grab information from our database and present it to users of our website.
## Other
### Git/Github
Version control
### United States Census Bureau API
An API created by the United States government allowing for access to the most recent census data. Available [here](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/guidance/api-user-guide.html), this API allows us to implement real-world data into our algorithm and accounts for the demographical information of all 50 states!

# Project Schedule




# Meet The Sponsor
